# Get-cleandata
Project info
Description by Coursera: "The purpose of this project is to demonstrate your ability to collect, work with, and clean a data set. The goal is to prepare tidy data that can be used for later analysis. 

This repository contains the file used to create the new tidy data set requiered by the project in course Getting and cleaning data.

The files are:
run_analysis.R      file that manipulates and creates the new data set
readme.md           this file
newtidy.txt         The new tidy file generated by the run_analysis.R file
codebook            information of the variables and process used to manipulate the data files.


The procedure set first the environment variables to read and load a) the test data, b) the train data, c) thee it sets the environment to read the activity labels file and finally d) it read the features file.

Then the run_analysis file is dividen as the questions by this project:
Pregunta 1 section: it has to the best of my knowledge the instructions to merge the train and the tests data sets and convert it to the one data set called: one_data_set.   This is the output generated by the merge action.

Pregunta 2 section: in the variable called extracts_only stores the information obtained from the one_data_set that shows only the words "mean"and "std" in their names.    This executes the required information for the second question.

Pregunta 3 section: it assigns the correct activity to each activity in the new data set.  The activity name was obtained base on the activitylabels_df read it in the first section of this program.   The activitylabels_df hast 2 variables, the index and the activity name.   The instruction used assing to the one_data_set the name instead of the code.

Pregunta 4 section: it assigns descriptive names to the one_data_set 

Pregunta 5 section: it creates the new tidy data set based on information obtained from the 4 previous questions.   The file generated is the newtidy.txt file.

